                         Mostafa Abdelaziz
                   Computer and Systems Engineer

Personal Info
-------------
Location:   Toronto, Canada
            Moving back to Egypt in Mar 18
Phone:      +1 778-788-0657
Email:      iocoder@aol.com
Linkedin:   linkedin.com/in/mabdelaz

About me
--------
Computer software engineer with wide technical expertise in software
engineering, computer networks,database systems, computer
architecture, and embedded systems.

Skills
------
Programming:       C/C++ (Expert), PLC, SQL, UNIX, Assembly, Java, 
                   Python, HTML, CSS, JS, and PHP.
Operating Systems: GNU/Linux, FreeBSD, and Windows.
Languages:         English (Fluent); Arabic (Native); Italian (Beginner).

Education
----------
2011 - 2016 B.Sc., Computer and Systems Engineering
            Alexandria University
            GPA: 3.94.
            Overall Ranking: 1 st .
            Graduation Project: FPGA computer based on MIPS architecture.
            WES Evaluation: currently in progress.

2008 - 2011 High School
            Mubarak Secondary School, Alexandria
            Overall Grade: 407.5/410 (99.36%).
            Specialization: Mathematics.

Experience
----------
2017 Research Assistant
     Simon Fraser University, BC
     Implementation of an LTE base station using Ettus B210 USRP and
     OpenAirInterface.

2017 Control Systems Engineer
     Advanced HVAC Consultant, Cairo
     Implementation of feedback control loops for HVAC systems using
     Fupla (function block diagrams) on Saia Burgess PLC devices. The
     work included:
        1. Control loops for airhand units (fans, valves, and sensors).
        2. Control loops for chillers and water pumps.
        3. Interfacing Saia Burgess PLCs and Honeywell Eagle DDCs using
           Modbus and Bacnet/IP.
        4. Developing interactive Human-Computer Interfaces using Trid-
           ium controller to interface the human operator with PLC logic.
        5. Instructing our teams on the implementation of electrical
           boards composed of high-voltage relays and networks of PLCs
           and RIOs.
        6. Troubleshooting and solving technical problems at the field.

2016 Software Engineer
     Ejada Systems Ltd., Alexandria
     Providing enterprise solutions to banks in the Middle East, including:
        1. Implementation of CRM systems using Oracle Siebel.
        2. Developing BigData solutions using Hadoop and Scala.

2015 RA Intern
     SmartCI Research Center, Alexandria
     Programming the storage system of a cognitive radio cloud, which
     consisted of Linux nodes with ext2fs, using IP multicast and
     filesystem-aware data compression.

Selected Projects
-----------------
* Quafios: An Operating System for x86 and MIPS. The system included:
    - Implementation of a UNIX-like system call interface.
    - Device drivers for PCI, USB, ATA, timers, interrupt controller, keyboard
      controller, and other hardware components.
    - Dynamic kernel-space and user-space memory allocation algorithms.
    - Implementation for C library routines.
    - A GUI, with a programmer-friendly API.
* Compiler for subset of C and Java Programming Languages
* CDP: Reliable Data Transfer Protocol for Linux Kernel TCP/IP Stack.
* Designed a Linux kernel device driver and synchronization assignment for OS
  course at Alexandria University.
* Liftroid: Visualized elevator Android interface with AVR.
* Technical Report on Unified Extensible Firmware Interface.

Awards
------
2017         CSED Golden Armor for the Top Student of 2015-2016 Class.
2017         Prof. Naeem Abou Taleb Award for Top Student.
2012 - 2016  Certificate of Excellence, Alexandria University.

Footnotes
---------
- You need a monospace font to correctly view this text version of my resume.
- You can find the LATEX source code of my resume at http://www.github.com/iocoder/resume.

